README.md, before:





[![Docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-latest-brightgreen.svg)](http://doc.servertribe.com)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/844971127703994369)](http://discord.servertribe.com)
[![Docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/videos-watch-brightgreen.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/@servertribe)
[![Generic badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/download-latest-brightgreen.svg)](https://www.servertribe.com/community-edition/)

# Kickstart RHEL Redhat Enterprise Linux on ESXi

Automating the installation of Redhat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) on 
virtual machines (VMs) can save time, reduce human error, and ensure 
consistent configurations across multiple instances. In this 
Attune Project, we'll Kickstart and streamline the installation of 
RHEL on VMware ESXi.

## Understanding Kickstart

Kickstart is an unattended installation method used primarily in 
Red Hat-based Linux distributions like RHEL, CentOS, and Fedora. It 
involves providing a predefined configuration file, often referred 
to as a "Kickstart file", which contains instructions on how the 
operating system should be installed. These instructions range from 
language settings to disk partitioning and package selection. The 
Kickstart file automates the installation process by eliminating the 
need for manual intervention during setup.

## Why Kickstart with ESXi

VMware ESXi is a widely-used hypervisor that allows you to run 
multiple VMs on a single physical server. Installing and configuring 
each VM manually can be time-consuming and error-prone, especially 
in large-scale deployments. Integrating Kickstart with ESXi brings a 
higher level of efficiency and consistency to the VM provisioning 
process. It ensures that RHEL installations on ESXi follow a 
standardised configuration every time.




# Attune

[Attune](https://www.servertribe.com/)
automates and orchestrates processes to streamline deployments, scaling,
migrations, and management of your systems. The Attune platform is building a
community of sharable automated and orchestrated processes.

You can leverage the publicly available orchestrated blueprints to increase
your productivity, and accelerate the delivery of your projects. You can
open-source your own work and improve existing community orchestrated projects.

## Get Started with Attune, Download NOW!

The **Attune Community Edition** can be
[downloaded](https://www.servertribe.com/comunity-edition/)
for free from our
[ServerTribe website](https://www.servertribe.com/comunity-edition/).
You can learn more about Attune through
[ServerTribe's YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/@servertribe).







# Clone this Project

To clone this project into your own instance of Attune, follow the
[Clone a GIT Project How To Instructions](https://servertribe-attune.readthedocs.io/en/latest/howto/design_workspace/clone_project.html).




## Blueprints

This Project contains the following Blueprints.



### Kickstart RHEL7 BIOS on ESXi

In this Attune Blueprint, we'll automate the process of 
provisioning a Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 (RHEL 7) machine with 
BIOS boot using Kickstart on VMware ESXi. 

Automating the deployment of operating systems is a critical 
aspect of modern IT infrastructure management.

The Kickstart method is a powerful tool that allows system 
administrators to streamline the installation of Red Hat 
Enterprise Linux (RHEL) on virtual machines (VMs) running on 
VMware ESXi. 

#### Understanding Kickstart Automation

Kickstart simplifies the installation of RHEL by using a 
configuration file that provides instructions for various 
installation settings. These settings range from language 
preferences to disk partitioning and package selection. By 
automating these settings, Kickstart eliminates the need for 
manual intervention during the installation process, making it a 
valuable time-saving tool.

#### The Need for BIOS Boot on ESXi

VMware ESXi is a hypervisor that enables the virtualisation of 
multiple guest VMs on a single physical server. In scenarios 
where BIOS boot is required instead of the more modern UEFI boot, 
the Kickstart automation process can be tailored to accommodate 
these requirements. BIOS boot is often preferred for compatibility 
with legacy systems or certain configurations.


### Kickstart RHEL7 UEFI on ESXi

In this Attune Blueprint, we'll automate the process of 
provisioning a Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 (RHEL 7) machine with 
UEFI boot using Kickstart on VMware ESXi. 

Automating the deployment of operating systems is a critical 
aspect of modern IT infrastructure management.

The Kickstart method is a powerful tool that allows system 
administrators to streamline the installation of Red Hat 
Enterprise Linux (RHEL) on virtual machines (VMs) running on 
VMware ESXi. 

#### Understanding Kickstart Automation

Kickstart simplifies the installation of RHEL by using a 
configuration file that provides instructions for various 
installation settings. These settings range from language 
preferences to disk partitioning and package selection. By 
automating these settings, Kickstart eliminates the need for 
manual intervention during the installation process, making it a 
valuable time-saving tool.

#### Importance of UEFI Boot on ESXi

VMware ESXi serves as a hypervisor that facilitates the 
virtualisation of multiple VMs on a single physical server. In 
instances where modern hardware and operating systems are 
utilised, Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) boot has 
become the standard. UEFI provides enhanced security, faster boot 
times, and compatibility with larger disks. Understanding how to 
incorporate UEFI boot into an automated installation is crucial 
for maintaining a current and efficient IT environment.


### Kickstart RHEL8 BIOS on ESXi

In this Attune Blueprint, we'll automate the process of 
provisioning a Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8 (RHEL 8) machine with 
BIOS boot using Kickstart on VMware ESXi. 

Automating the deployment of operating systems is a critical 
aspect of modern IT infrastructure management.

The Kickstart method is a powerful tool that allows system 
administrators to streamline the installation of Red Hat 
Enterprise Linux (RHEL) on virtual machines (VMs) running on 
VMware ESXi. 

#### Understanding Kickstart Automation

Kickstart simplifies the installation of RHEL by using a 
configuration file that provides instructions for various 
installation settings. These settings range from language 
preferences to disk partitioning and package selection. By 
automating these settings, Kickstart eliminates the need for 
manual intervention during the installation process, making it a 
valuable time-saving tool.

#### The Need for BIOS Boot on ESXi

VMware ESXi is a hypervisor that enables the virtualisation of 
multiple guest VMs on a single physical server. In scenarios 
where BIOS boot is required instead of the more modern UEFI boot, 
the Kickstart automation process can be tailored to accommodate 
these requirements. BIOS boot is often preferred for compatibility 
with legacy systems or certain configurations.


### Kickstart RHEL8 UEFI on ESXi

In this Attune Blueprint, we'll automate the process of 
provisioning a Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8 (RHEL 8) machine with 
UEFI boot using Kickstart on VMware ESXi. 

Automating the deployment of operating systems is a critical 
aspect of modern IT infrastructure management.

The Kickstart method is a powerful tool that allows system 
administrators to streamline the installation of Red Hat 
Enterprise Linux (RHEL) on virtual machines (VMs) running on 
VMware ESXi. 

#### Understanding Kickstart Automation

Kickstart simplifies the installation of RHEL by using a 
configuration file that provides instructions for various 
installation settings. These settings range from language 
preferences to disk partitioning and package selection. By 
automating these settings, Kickstart eliminates the need for 
manual intervention during the installation process, making it a 
valuable time-saving tool.

#### Importance of UEFI Boot on ESXi

VMware ESXi serves as a hypervisor that facilitates the 
virtualisation of multiple VMs on a single physical server. In 
instances where modern hardware and operating systems are 
utilised, Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) boot has 
become the standard. UEFI provides enhanced security, faster boot 
times, and compatibility with larger disks. Understanding how to 
incorporate UEFI boot into an automated installation is crucial 
for maintaining a current and efficient IT environment.


### Kickstart RHEL9 BIOS on ESXi

In this Attune Blueprint, we'll automate the process of 
provisioning a Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9 (RHEL 9) machine with 
BIOS boot using Kickstart on VMware ESXi. 

Automating the deployment of operating systems is a critical 
aspect of modern IT infrastructure management.

The Kickstart method is a powerful tool that allows system 
administrators to streamline the installation of Red Hat 
Enterprise Linux (RHEL) on virtual machines (VMs) running on 
VMware ESXi. 

#### Understanding Kickstart Automation

Kickstart simplifies the installation of RHEL by using a 
configuration file that provides instructions for various 
installation settings. These settings range from language 
preferences to disk partitioning and package selection. By 
automating these settings, Kickstart eliminates the need for 
manual intervention during the installation process, making it a 
valuable time-saving tool.

#### The Need for BIOS Boot on ESXi

VMware ESXi is a hypervisor that enables the virtualisation of 
multiple guest VMs on a single physical server. In scenarios 
where BIOS boot is required instead of the more modern UEFI boot, 
the Kickstart automation process can be tailored to accommodate 
these requirements. BIOS boot is often preferred for compatibility 
with legacy systems or certain configurations.


### Kickstart RHEL9 UEFI on ESXi

In this Attune Blueprint, we'll automate the process of 
provisioning a Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9 (RHEL 9) machine with 
UEFI boot using Kickstart on VMware ESXi. 

Automating the deployment of operating systems is a critical 
aspect of modern IT infrastructure management.

The Kickstart method is a powerful tool that allows system 
administrators to streamline the installation of Red Hat 
Enterprise Linux (RHEL) on virtual machines (VMs) running on 
VMware ESXi. 

#### Understanding Kickstart Automation

Kickstart simplifies the installation of RHEL by using a 
configuration file that provides instructions for various 
installation settings. These settings range from language 
preferences to disk partitioning and package selection. By 
automating these settings, Kickstart eliminates the need for 
manual intervention during the installation process, making it a 
valuable time-saving tool.

#### Importance of UEFI Boot on ESXi

VMware ESXi serves as a hypervisor that facilitates the 
virtualisation of multiple VMs on a single physical server. In 
instances where modern hardware and operating systems are 
utilised, Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) boot has 
become the standard. UEFI provides enhanced security, faster boot 
times, and compatibility with larger disks. Understanding how to 
incorporate UEFI boot into an automated installation is crucial 
for maintaining a current and efficient IT environment.





## Parameters


| Name | Type | Script Reference | Comment |
| ---- | ---- | ---------------- | ------- |
| Automation Worker Base Directory | Text | `automationworkerbasedirectory` |  |
| Automation Worker Linux Node | Linux/Unix Node | `automationworkerlinuxnode` |  |
| Automation Worker User | Linux/Unix Credential | `automationworkeruser` |  |
| Automation Worker User: root | Linux/Unix Credential | `automationworkeruserroot` |  |
| New VM Node | Linux/Unix Node | `newvmnode` |  |
| New VM User: root | Linux/Unix Credential | `newvmuserroot` |  |




## Files

| Name | Type | Comment |
| ---- | ---- | ------- |






# Contribute to this Project

**The collective power of a community of talented individuals working in
concert delivers not only more ideas, but quicker development and
troubleshooting when issues arise.**

If you’d like to contribute and help improve these projects, please fork our
repository, commit your changes in Attune, push you changes, and create a
pull request.

<img src="https://www.servertribe.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/Attune-pull-request-01.png" alt="pull request"/>

---

Please feel free to raise any issues or questions you have.

<img src="https://www.servertribe.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/Attune-get-help-02.png" alt="create an issue"/>


---

**Thank you**

Commit message:

Renamed project to Automate Red Hat Enterprise Linux RHEL Installation with Kickstart on ESXi

README.md, after:





[![Docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-latest-brightgreen.svg)](http://doc.servertribe.com)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/844971127703994369)](http://discord.servertribe.com)
[![Docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/videos-watch-brightgreen.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/@servertribe)
[![Generic badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/download-latest-brightgreen.svg)](https://www.servertribe.com/community-edition/)

# Automate Red Hat Enterprise Linux RHEL Installation with Kickstart on ESXi

Automating the installation of Redhat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) on 
virtual machines (VMs) can save time, reduce human error, and ensure 
consistent configurations across multiple instances. In this 
Attune Project, we'll Kickstart and streamline the installation of 
RHEL on VMware ESXi.

## Understanding Kickstart

Kickstart is an unattended installation method used primarily in 
Red Hat-based Linux distributions like RHEL, CentOS, and Fedora. It 
involves providing a predefined configuration file, often referred 
to as a "Kickstart file", which contains instructions on how the 
operating system should be installed. These instructions range from 
language settings to disk partitioning and package selection. The 
Kickstart file automates the installation process by eliminating the 
need for manual intervention during setup.

## Why Kickstart with ESXi

VMware ESXi is a widely-used hypervisor that allows you to run 
multiple VMs on a single physical server. Installing and configuring 
each VM manually can be time-consuming and error-prone, especially 
in large-scale deployments. Integrating Kickstart with ESXi brings a 
higher level of efficiency and consistency to the VM provisioning 
process. It ensures that RHEL installations on ESXi follow a 
standardised configuration every time.




# Attune

[Attune](https://www.servertribe.com/)
automates and orchestrates processes to streamline deployments, scaling,
migrations, and management of your systems. The Attune platform is building a
community of sharable automated and orchestrated processes.

You can leverage the publicly available orchestrated blueprints to increase
your productivity, and accelerate the delivery of your projects. You can
open-source your own work and improve existing community orchestrated projects.

## Get Started with Attune, Download NOW!

The **Attune Community Edition** can be
[downloaded](https://www.servertribe.com/comunity-edition/)
for free from our
[ServerTribe website](https://www.servertribe.com/comunity-edition/).
You can learn more about Attune through
[ServerTribe's YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/@servertribe).







# Clone this Project

To clone this project into your own instance of Attune, follow the
[Clone a GIT Project How To Instructions](https://servertribe-attune.readthedocs.io/en/latest/howto/design_workspace/clone_project.html).




## Blueprints

This Project contains the following Blueprints.



### Kickstart RHEL7 BIOS on ESXi

In this Attune Blueprint, we'll automate the process of 
provisioning a Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 (RHEL 7) machine with 
BIOS boot using Kickstart on VMware ESXi. 

Automating the deployment of operating systems is a critical 
aspect of modern IT infrastructure management.

The Kickstart method is a powerful tool that allows system 
administrators to streamline the installation of Red Hat 
Enterprise Linux (RHEL) on virtual machines (VMs) running on 
VMware ESXi. 

#### Understanding Kickstart Automation

Kickstart simplifies the installation of RHEL by using a 
configuration file that provides instructions for various 
installation settings. These settings range from language 
preferences to disk partitioning and package selection. By 
automating these settings, Kickstart eliminates the need for 
manual intervention during the installation process, making it a 
valuable time-saving tool.

#### The Need for BIOS Boot on ESXi

VMware ESXi is a hypervisor that enables the virtualisation of 
multiple guest VMs on a single physical server. In scenarios 
where BIOS boot is required instead of the more modern UEFI boot, 
the Kickstart automation process can be tailored to accommodate 
these requirements. BIOS boot is often preferred for compatibility 
with legacy systems or certain configurations.


### Kickstart RHEL7 UEFI on ESXi

In this Attune Blueprint, we'll automate the process of 
provisioning a Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 (RHEL 7) machine with 
UEFI boot using Kickstart on VMware ESXi. 

Automating the deployment of operating systems is a critical 
aspect of modern IT infrastructure management.

The Kickstart method is a powerful tool that allows system 
administrators to streamline the installation of Red Hat 
Enterprise Linux (RHEL) on virtual machines (VMs) running on 
VMware ESXi. 

#### Understanding Kickstart Automation

Kickstart simplifies the installation of RHEL by using a 
configuration file that provides instructions for various 
installation settings. These settings range from language 
preferences to disk partitioning and package selection. By 
automating these settings, Kickstart eliminates the need for 
manual intervention during the installation process, making it a 
valuable time-saving tool.

#### Importance of UEFI Boot on ESXi

VMware ESXi serves as a hypervisor that facilitates the 
virtualisation of multiple VMs on a single physical server. In 
instances where modern hardware and operating systems are 
utilised, Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) boot has 
become the standard. UEFI provides enhanced security, faster boot 
times, and compatibility with larger disks. Understanding how to 
incorporate UEFI boot into an automated installation is crucial 
for maintaining a current and efficient IT environment.


### Kickstart RHEL8 BIOS on ESXi

In this Attune Blueprint, we'll automate the process of 
provisioning a Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8 (RHEL 8) machine with 
BIOS boot using Kickstart on VMware ESXi. 

Automating the deployment of operating systems is a critical 
aspect of modern IT infrastructure management.

The Kickstart method is a powerful tool that allows system 
administrators to streamline the installation of Red Hat 
Enterprise Linux (RHEL) on virtual machines (VMs) running on 
VMware ESXi. 

#### Understanding Kickstart Automation

Kickstart simplifies the installation of RHEL by using a 
configuration file that provides instructions for various 
installation settings. These settings range from language 
preferences to disk partitioning and package selection. By 
automating these settings, Kickstart eliminates the need for 
manual intervention during the installation process, making it a 
valuable time-saving tool.

#### The Need for BIOS Boot on ESXi

VMware ESXi is a hypervisor that enables the virtualisation of 
multiple guest VMs on a single physical server. In scenarios 
where BIOS boot is required instead of the more modern UEFI boot, 
the Kickstart automation process can be tailored to accommodate 
these requirements. BIOS boot is often preferred for compatibility 
with legacy systems or certain configurations.


### Kickstart RHEL8 UEFI on ESXi

In this Attune Blueprint, we'll automate the process of 
provisioning a Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8 (RHEL 8) machine with 
UEFI boot using Kickstart on VMware ESXi. 

Automating the deployment of operating systems is a critical 
aspect of modern IT infrastructure management.

The Kickstart method is a powerful tool that allows system 
administrators to streamline the installation of Red Hat 
Enterprise Linux (RHEL) on virtual machines (VMs) running on 
VMware ESXi. 

#### Understanding Kickstart Automation

Kickstart simplifies the installation of RHEL by using a 
configuration file that provides instructions for various 
installation settings. These settings range from language 
preferences to disk partitioning and package selection. By 
automating these settings, Kickstart eliminates the need for 
manual intervention during the installation process, making it a 
valuable time-saving tool.

#### Importance of UEFI Boot on ESXi

VMware ESXi serves as a hypervisor that facilitates the 
virtualisation of multiple VMs on a single physical server. In 
instances where modern hardware and operating systems are 
utilised, Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) boot has 
become the standard. UEFI provides enhanced security, faster boot 
times, and compatibility with larger disks. Understanding how to 
incorporate UEFI boot into an automated installation is crucial 
for maintaining a current and efficient IT environment.


### Kickstart RHEL9 BIOS on ESXi

In this Attune Blueprint, we'll automate the process of 
provisioning a Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9 (RHEL 9) machine with 
BIOS boot using Kickstart on VMware ESXi. 

Automating the deployment of operating systems is a critical 
aspect of modern IT infrastructure management.

The Kickstart method is a powerful tool that allows system 
administrators to streamline the installation of Red Hat 
Enterprise Linux (RHEL) on virtual machines (VMs) running on 
VMware ESXi. 

#### Understanding Kickstart Automation

Kickstart simplifies the installation of RHEL by using a 
configuration file that provides instructions for various 
installation settings. These settings range from language 
preferences to disk partitioning and package selection. By 
automating these settings, Kickstart eliminates the need for 
manual intervention during the installation process, making it a 
valuable time-saving tool.

#### The Need for BIOS Boot on ESXi

VMware ESXi is a hypervisor that enables the virtualisation of 
multiple guest VMs on a single physical server. In scenarios 
where BIOS boot is required instead of the more modern UEFI boot, 
the Kickstart automation process can be tailored to accommodate 
these requirements. BIOS boot is often preferred for compatibility 
with legacy systems or certain configurations.


### Kickstart RHEL9 UEFI on ESXi

In this Attune Blueprint, we'll automate the process of 
provisioning a Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9 (RHEL 9) machine with 
UEFI boot using Kickstart on VMware ESXi. 

Automating the deployment of operating systems is a critical 
aspect of modern IT infrastructure management.

The Kickstart method is a powerful tool that allows system 
administrators to streamline the installation of Red Hat 
Enterprise Linux (RHEL) on virtual machines (VMs) running on 
VMware ESXi. 

#### Understanding Kickstart Automation

Kickstart simplifies the installation of RHEL by using a 
configuration file that provides instructions for various 
installation settings. These settings range from language 
preferences to disk partitioning and package selection. By 
automating these settings, Kickstart eliminates the need for 
manual intervention during the installation process, making it a 
valuable time-saving tool.

#### Importance of UEFI Boot on ESXi

VMware ESXi serves as a hypervisor that facilitates the 
virtualisation of multiple VMs on a single physical server. In 
instances where modern hardware and operating systems are 
utilised, Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) boot has 
become the standard. UEFI provides enhanced security, faster boot 
times, and compatibility with larger disks. Understanding how to 
incorporate UEFI boot into an automated installation is crucial 
for maintaining a current and efficient IT environment.





## Parameters


| Name | Type | Script Reference | Comment |
| ---- | ---- | ---------------- | ------- |
| Automation Worker Base Directory | Text | `automationworkerbasedirectory` |  |
| Automation Worker Linux Node | Linux/Unix Node | `automationworkerlinuxnode` |  |
| Automation Worker User | Linux/Unix Credential | `automationworkeruser` |  |
| Automation Worker User: root | Linux/Unix Credential | `automationworkeruserroot` |  |
| New VM Node | Linux/Unix Node | `newvmnode` |  |
| New VM User: root | Linux/Unix Credential | `newvmuserroot` |  |




## Files

| Name | Type | Comment |
| ---- | ---- | ------- |






# Contribute to this Project

**The collective power of a community of talented individuals working in
concert delivers not only more ideas, but quicker development and
troubleshooting when issues arise.**

If you’d like to contribute and help improve these projects, please fork our
repository, commit your changes in Attune, push you changes, and create a
pull request.

<img src="https://www.servertribe.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/Attune-pull-request-01.png" alt="pull request"/>

---

Please feel free to raise any issues or questions you have.

<img src="https://www.servertribe.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/Attune-get-help-02.png" alt="create an issue"/>


---

**Thank you**
